EDM-390: Add diagram for device lifecycle statuses (#860)
flightctl/flightctl: docs/user/device-api-statuses.md

    Known --> Unknown
```

## Lifecycle Status

The Lifecycle Status represents whether the device is available to be managed and assigned to do work or is moving to an end-of-life state.

The `device.status.lifecycle` field can have the following values:

| Status | Description | Formal Definition<sup>1</sub> |
| ------ | ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| `Enrolled` | The device's Enrollment Request was approved and it will be able to connect to management to carry out normal operations using its management certificate. | `∃ er ∈ enrollmentrequest \| er[device] && er ∈{Complete}` |
| `Decommissioning` | The device has been requested to decommission by a user and is no longer available to carry out normal operations. | `device.spec.decommissioning != nil` |
| `Decommissioned` | The device has either completed its decommissioning process or has encountered an unrecoverable error in doing so. | `∃ c ∈ device.status.conditions \| c.type == DeviceDecommissioning && c.status == true && c.reason ∈ {DecommissionStateComplete, DecommissionStateError}` |

> | `Unknown` | The device has not properly enrolled. No device available through management should be in this state. | `∄ er ∈ enrollmentrequest \| er[device] && er ∈{Complete}` |

Reviewer: Status and Description are ok. For the Formal Definition, I've been struggling to figure out whether from a boolean logic perspective the definition is such that the device must always be in exactly one of these statuses.

I've therefore tried to read the definition out of `updateServerSideLifecycleStatus`, but then noticed this function does not yet enforce any definition as contract; it just takes what the agent sends at face value.

What I think the definition _should_ look like (but this doesn't match implementation):
```suggestion
| `Enrolled` | The device's Enrollment Request was approved and it will be able to connect to management to carry out normal operations using its management certificate. | `enrollmentCompleted(device) && device.spec.decommissioning == nil` |
| `Decommissioning` | The device has been requested to decommission by a user and is no longer available to carry out normal operations. | `enrollmentCompleted(device) && device.spec.decommissioning != nil && (
  last.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].status != "true"
  && (current.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].status == "true" && current.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].reason ∉ {Complete, Error})
)` |
| `Decommissioned` | The device has either completed its decommissioning process or has encountered an unrecoverable error in doing so. | `enrollmentCompleted(device) && device.spec.decommissioning != nil && (
  last.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].status == "true"
  || (current.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].status == "true" && current.device.condition["DeviceDecommissioning"].reason ∈ {Complete, Error})
)` |
| `Unknown` | The device has not properly enrolled. No device available through management should be in this state. | `!enrollmentCompleted(device)` |
```

Then the `enrollmentCompleted(device)` helper function could be defined as

```
// A device has completed enrollment if there exists an EnrollmentRequest record with the device's ID and that record contains a valid `er.status.certificate`.
enrollmentCompleted := enrollmentRequests[device.metadata.name].status.certificate != nil
```

Reviewer: Yeah, it's more pseudo code than matching lines in the code. We've used something resembling a JSONPath as compromise between formality and legibility, so actually the path should probably be `device.status.condition` instead and maybe use `$last.` and `$currrent.` to denote the spec object being operated on.

The `device.status.conditions` field may contain a Condition of type `DeviceDecommissioning` whose `Condition.Reason` field contains the current state of a decommissioning in progress and can contain the following values:

| Decommissioning State | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| `Started` | The agent has received the request to decommission from the service and will take a series of previously defined decommissioning actions. |
| `Completed` | The agent has completed its decommissioning process, up until the point of wiping its management certificate that is used to communicate with the service. |
| `Error` | The agent has encountered an unrecoverable error during its decommissioning process and will not be able to take further actions. |

The following state diagram shows the possible transitions between lifecycle statuses and states.

```mermaid
stateDiagram
    direction LR

    Unknown
    state Known {
        direction LR

        state Decommissioning {
            [*] --> DecommissioningRequested
            DecommissioningRequested --> DecommissioningStarted
        }

        state Decommissioned {
            [*] --> DecommissioningCompleted

>             [*] --> DecommissioningError

Reviewer: No need, I think. Remember these diagrams do not describe the device agent's view but the service's view, which combines what the service knows about the device with what the agent reports / did not yet report. Concretely, the service knows the state is `Requested`, because it has updated the device spec to initiate decom, but the agent did not yet pick up that request and report it status change yet.

The `device.status.conditions` field may contain a Condition of type `DeviceDecommissioning` whose `Condition.Reason` field contains the current state of a decommissioning in progress and can contain the following values:

| Decommissioning State | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| `Started` | The agent has received the request to decommission from the service and will take a series of previously defined decommissioning actions. |
| `Completed` | The agent has completed its decommissioning process, up until the point of wiping its management certificate that is used to communicate with the service. |
| `Error` | The agent has encountered an unrecoverable error during its decommissioning process and will not be able to take further actions. |

The following state diagram shows the possible transitions between lifecycle statuses and states.

```mermaid
stateDiagram
    classDef transientNotReported stroke-dasharray:5 5
    class ActivatingConfig transientNotReported

    classDef notYetSupported fill:white

>     class PoweringOff notYetSupported

Reviewer 2: Do these PowerOff/On states belong here?

Author: Likely not, good catch
